=pod

=head1 NAME

B<xattr> - manipulate Mac OS X extended attributes on files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xattr> [B<-lr>] [B<-LPvx>] I<pattern> [I<pattern> ...] I<file>

B<xattr> [B<-lr>] B<-A> [B<-LPvx>] I<file> [I<file> ...]

B<xattr> B<-s> [B<-LPvx>] I<name=value> [I<name=value> ...] I<file>

B<xattr> B<-h>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xattr> is used to list, set, or remove extended attributes on files under
recent versions of Mac OS X.  Extended attributes provide extra information
about file system objects (files, directories, symlinks, etc.) and are used by
various Mac OS X applications to store data about files beyond just what they
contain.  Care should therefore be taken when changing them so as not to
needlessly disrupt any pre-existing settings.

In the above synopses, I<pattern> is a shell wildcard pattern (using C<*>,
C<?>, etc.) that is used to match attribute names, and any wildcards used will
have to be escaped so as not to be parsed by the shell.  Only pattern elements
supported by L<fnmatch(3)> are supported by B<xattr>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-A>

List or remove all attributes.  When this option is given, all command-line
arguments are taken to be filenames to act upon rather than patterns.  This
option has no effect if the B<-s> option is also supplied.

=item B<-h>

Display a usage & options summary and exit.

=item B<-i>

Match patterns case-insensitively.

=item B<-L>

Follow all symbolic links.  This causes B<xattr> to act on the file that a
symbolic link points to, rather than on the link itself.

=item B<-l>

List the names of the extended attributes on a file.  This is the default.
When the B<-v> option is also given, the value of each attribute is also
printed.

=item B<-P>

Do not follow any symbolic links.  This is the default.

=item B<-r>

Remove extended attributes from a file.  When the B<-v> option is also given, a
message is printed to the standard output for each attribute removed.  When the
B<-A> option is also given, all extended attributes are removed from each file
specified on the command line.

=item B<-s>

Set the values of extended attributes.  The last argument is taken to be the
name of a file, and every other argument is taken to be of the form
C<name=value>, in which equals signs within the C<name> may be escaped with
backslashes, and any other character preceded by a backslash is replaced with
itself.  Note that backslashes in the C<value> portion of the string are not
parsed.  If the B<-v> option is also given, a message is printed to the
standard output for each extended attribute set on the file.

=item B<-v>

Give verbose output.  When listing extended attributes, the values are printde
as well.  When setting or removing attributes, a message is printed for each
attribute set or removed.  When setting attributes to hexadecimal values with
the B<-x> option, print a warning when a non-hexadecimal digit causes parsing
of a value to stop.

=item B<-x>

Print out attribute values in hexadecimal.  When setting attributes, treat
attribute values as sequences of hexadecimal digits (which may not contain
C<0x>).

=back

=head1 BUGS

Odd numbers of hexadecimal digits, whether terminated by a non-hex digit or by
the end of the argument, are not handled very well when setting attributes.

B<xattr> does not complain if the user tries to set an attribute with an empty
name (though it will complain once the attempt fails).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ls(1)>, L<fnmatch(3)>, L<getxattr(3)>, L<listxattr(3)>, L<removexattr(3)>

=head1 AUTHOR

John T. Wodder II <jwodder@sdf.lonestar.org>

=cut
